Let's talk about cases where we need
to interpolate between, or back off,
from one language modal to another one.
And we'll also touch on the web today.
These are cases where it helps to
use Less context rather than more.
The intuition is, suppose,
that you have a very confident trigram.
You've seen the trigram
a very large number of times,
you're very confident this
trigram is a good estimator.
Well we should use the trigram.
But, suppose you only saw it once.
Well, maybe you don't really trust that
trigram, so you might want to back off and
use the bigram instead.
And maybe you haven't seen
the bigram either, so
you might back off to the unigram.
So the idea of back off is, sometimes,
if you don't have a large count or
a trustworthy evidence for
a larger order n-gram,
we might back off to a smaller one.,
A related idea
is interpolation, interpolation says, well
sometimes the trigram may not be useful,
and in that case if we mixed trigrams,
and bigrams, and
unigrams, well then we may get more
information from the unigrams and bigrams.
But other times trigrams will be more
useful, and so interpolation suggests that
we jut mix all three all the time,
and get the benefits of all of them.
And it turns out in practice ,that
interpolation works better than backoff,
so most of the time in language modeling,
we'll be dealing with interpolation.
There are two kinds of interpolation.
Simple linear interpolation,
we have our unigram, our bigram.
And our trigram, and we simply add them
together with three weights: lambda one,
lambda two, lambda three.
The lambdas just sum to one
to make this a probability.
And we can compute our new probability,
we'll call it p hat,
of a word given the previous two words by
interpolating these three Language models.
We can do something
slightly more complicated.
We can condition our
Lambdas on the context.
So, we can say still mix our tri gram,
our bi gram, and our uni gram, but
now, the lambdas are dependent on
what the previous two words were.
So, we can train even richer and
more complex.
Context conditioning for
deciding how to mix our trigrams,
and our bigrams, and our unigrams.
So where do the lambdas come from?
The normal way to set lambdas
is to use a held-out corpus.
So, we've talked before about
having a training corpus, and
here's our training corpus.
And our test corpus.
A held out corpus is yet another piece
that we set out, set aside from our data.
And we use a held out corpus, sometimes we
use a held out corpus called a dev set,
a development set, or
other kinds of held out data.
We use them to set meta-parameters and
check for things.
So in this, we can use the held-out corpus
to set out lambdas, and the idea is that
we're going to chose lambdas that maximize
the likelihood of this held-out data.
So here's what we do: we take our
training data and we train some engrams.
Now we say which lambdas would I use
to interpolate those engrams,such
that it gives me the highest
probability of this held out data?
So we ask find the set
of probabilities Such
that the log probability
of the actual words
that appear in
the Held-Out Data are highest.
Now we've talked about cases
where there are zeros.
So we haven't seen some
bi-brand before and
we have to replace that zero
count with some other count.
That's smoothing.
But what do we do if the actual word
itself has never been seen before?
Now sometimes that doesn't happen in
tasks where, let's say a menu based
task,where we have fixed set of commands,
then no other words can ever be said.
Our vocabulary is fixed and we have what
is called a closed vocabulary task, but
lots of times language modelling is
applied in cases where we don't know
any word could be used and could be words
we have never seen in our training set.
So we call these words, OOV or
out of vocabulary words.
And one way of dealing with out of
vocabulary words is as follows.
We create a special token called UNK.
And the way we train the UNK probabilities
is we create a fixed lexicon.
So we take our training data And we first
decide which we hold out a few words,
the very rare words or the unimportant
words and we take all those words and
we change those words to UNK.
Now we train the probabilities of UNK
like like a normal, any normal word.
So,we have our training corpus,
it has word word word and
it has a low probability word Word,
word, word.
And we'll take that word,
and we'll change it to UNK.
And now we train our bigram.
Word, word, word, UNK, word, word, word
just as if UNK had been a word in there.
And now at decoding time,
if you see a new word you haven't seen,
you replace that word with UNK, and
treat it like its bigram probabilities and
its trigram probabilities.
From the UNK word in the training set.
Another important issue in n-grams has to
do with web-scale or very large n-grams.
So we introduced
the Google N-grams corpus earlier.
How do we deal with computing
probabilities in such large spaces?
So, one answer is pruning.
We only store N-grams that
have a very large count.
So, for example,
the very high order N-grams,we
might want to remove all of those
singletons, all things with count 1.
Because by Zipf's law, there's going
to be a lot of those singleton counts.
And we can also use other kinds of more
sophisticated versions of this where we
don't just remove things with counts,
we actually compute the entropy or
the complexity on a test set and remove
counts that are contributing less to the
probability on a particulary held out set.
So that's pruning.
And we can do a number of
other efficiency things.
We can use efficient data
structures like tries.
We can use approximate language models,
which are very efficient, but
are not guaranteed to give you
the exact same probability We have
to do efficient things, like, don't store
the actual strings but just store indexes.
We can use Huffman coding.
And often, instead of storing our
probabilities as these big 8-byte-floats,
we might just do some kind
of quantinization and
just store small number or
bits for our probabilities.
What about smoothing for
Web-scale N-grams?
The most popular smoothing method for
these very large N-grams is
an algorithm called stupid backoff.
Stupid backoff is called stupid
because it's very simple, but
it works very well at
the very large scale.
And in fact, it's been shown to work as
well as any more complicated algorithm
when you have very large amounts of data
And the intuition of stupid backoff is,
if I want to compute the stupid
backoff probability of a word given
some previous set of words,
I use the maximum likelihood estimator.
And this is the count of the words
divided by the count of the prefix
If that count is greater than zero and
if not,
I just back off to
the probability of the previous,
the lower border n-gram prefix
with some constant weight.
So it's, if the trigram let's say occurs,
I just use the account of the trigram.
If it doesn't, I take the bigram
probability, multiply it by 44,
and just use that.
And then when I get down to the unigrams,
if I don't have anything at all,
I just use the unigram.
I just use the unigram probability.
So, we call this S instead of P
because stupid backoff doesn't
produce probabilities.
Because, to produce probabilities,
we would have to actually use
various clever kinds of waiting.
A backoff algorithm has to
discount this probability
to leave some mass left over to
use the bigram probabilities.
Otherwise, we're going to end up with
numbers that are greater than one and
we won't have probabilities.
So stupid backoff produces something
like scores, rather than probabilities.
But, it turns out that
this works quite well.
So, in summary for smoothing so
far, Add-1 smoothing is okay for
text categorization, but it's not
recommended for language modeling.
The most commonly used method we'll
discuss in the advanced section
of this week,
is the Kneser-Ney algorithm or
the extended interpolated
Kneser-Ney algorithm.
But for very large N-grams,
like situations where you're using the web
Simplistic algorithms like stupid
backoff actually work quite well.
How about
Advanced Language Modeling issues.
Recent research has focused on
things like Discriminative models.
So, here the idea is pick the n-gram
weights, instead of picking them
to fit some training data,
whether it's maximum likelihood or smooth.
Instead, choose your n-gram
weights to improve some task.
So, we'll pick a whatever
task we're doing.
Machine translation or
speech recognition and
choose whatever n-gram weights
make that task more likely.
Another thing we can do is, instead of
just using n-grams we can use parsers and
we'll see the use of parsers and
statistical parsers later in the course.
Or we can use cashing models.
In a cashing model,
we assume that a word that's been used
recently is more likely to appear again.
So, the cash probability of
a word given given some history,
we mix the probability of the word with
some function of the history, how often
the word occurred in the history, and we
weight those two probabilities together.
It turns out that cash models don't
don't work in certain situations, and
in particularly they perform poorly for
speech recognition.
So, you should think about why that might
be, that a cache model performs poorly for
speech recognition.